README.en.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    ✨ BD Startups ✨
</h1>

<p style="text-align:left;">
    List of Bangladeshi startups
    <span style="float:right;">
      <a href = "https://the-penguins-club.github.io/bd-startups">এই পেইজটি বাংলায় পড়ুন</a>  
    </span>
</p>

## Introduction
- We're making a list of Bangladeshi startups.
- If you know any startup that's not listed here then [fork](https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/fork) this repo and contribute. Also you can create an [issue](https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/issues).

## Startups
- [**`10 Minute School`**](https://10minuteschool.com) : eDTech - Academic and skill development learning platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Ajkerdeal`**](https://ajkerdeal.com) : Online shopping platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Arogga`**](https://www.arogga.com/) Doorstep delivery service for medicine and healthcare service. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Bkash`**](https://www.bkash.com/) : Mobile banking solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.09)***
- [**`Bdjobs`**](https://www.bdjobs.com/) : Job searching platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Chaldal`**](https://chaldal.com) : Online grocery store. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Codepotro`**](https://codepotro.com) : Independent software development company. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Dingi Technologies Ltd`**](https://www.dingi.tech/) :  Finest Local Map & Lifestyle App. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Gaze`**](https://developer.gaze.ai/) :  API for visual recognition, biometric and other services. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.12)***
- [**`Inclusion X`**](https://inclusionx.org/) : Mental Health service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Khelbei Bangladesh`**](https://kbangla.com/) : Online Game Learning Platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`OpenRefactory`**](https://www.openrefactory.com) : Intelligent code repair solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Pathao`**](https://pathao.com/) : Ride sharing and parcel service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Paperfly`**](http://www.paperfly.com.bd/) : E-commerce delivery solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Repto`**](https://repto.com.bd/) : Online education platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`Sheba.xyz`**](https://www.sheba.xyz) : Online market place for daily products. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Shikho`**](https://shikho.tech) : edTech - Online learning platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Shohoz`**](https://www.shohoz.com/) : Online on demand service provider. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`Shopup`**](https://shopup.com.bd/) : Online shopping platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`The Penguins Club`**](https://thepenguins.club/) : Daily Bangla magazine on open source, Linux, business, privacy and security. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`The2HourJob`**](https://the2hourjob.com/) : Freelancing service for woman. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Truck Lagbe`**](http://www.trucklagbe.com) : Online truck hiring service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Zantrik`**](https://www.zantrik.com) : Automobile repairing service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Bi-Beat Limited`**](https://bibeat.com/) : BiBeat Limited provides telemedicine based on internet software and integrated tell diagnostic devices. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.23)***
- [**`Khamar-E`**](https://khamar-e.com/) : Khamar-e is a agro-tech startup in Bangladesh. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.23)***
- [**`DocTime`**](https://doctime.com.bd/) : DocTime is a telemedicine service provider. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`SME Vai`**](https://smevai.com/) : SMEVAI is the One Stop Business Solution for SMEs covering. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Maya`**](https://m.mayaiswithyou.com/) : Maya is telemedicine service specially for women. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Tally Khata`**](https://www.tallykhata.com/) : Tally Khata app can be handy for keeping financial records of SMEs. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Programming Hero`**](https://www.programming-hero.com/) : Programming Learning App. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`BiddinGO Ride`**](https://biddingo.app/) : BiddinGO is a ridesharing app that works for sharing ride as customer demand. ***(Last Update: 2022.03.30)***
- [**`Boi Pathok`**](https://boipathok.com/) : Digital edition of the traditional library. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.03)***
- [**`DataXpie`**](https://dataxpie.com) : Digital Product store. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`HandyMama`**](https://handymama.co) : Online on-demand service provider. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Gaze`**](https://www.gaze.ai) : Artificial Intelligence  related startup. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`SOLshare`**](https://me-solshare.com) : Solar energy sharing platform. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Nitex`**](https://nitex.com) : End to End supply chain management fore clothing brand. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Khaas Food`**](https://www.khaasfood.com) : E-commerce service for Organic food. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Roots Edu`**](https://rootsedulive.com/) : Ed-tech Platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.04.19)***
- [**`JaduPC`**](https://jadupc.com/) : Low cost computers with ARM based SBCs (single board computers). ***(Last Update: 2023.08.13)***
- [**`Chorcha`**](https://chorcha.net/) : Chorcha is a HSC and admission-focused quiz-based preparation platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Tinkers`**](https://tinkers.ltd/) : Tinkers is an edtech startup focusing on teaching kids. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Hackverse`**](https://www.hackverse.dev/) : Hackverse is a hackathon-conducting platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Zatiq`**](https://www.zatiq.com/) : Zatiq is a fintech software and hardware startup. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Mitro`**](https://mitro.io/en) : Platform for withdraw advance salary. ***(Last Update: 2023.09.08)***
- [**`JoBike`**](https://www.jo.bike/) : JoBike is the first “station-less” bike-sharing service in Bangladesh. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.14)***
- [**`BD Recycle Technologies Limited (BRTL)`**](https://brtlcenter.com/) : A tech-based platform where all the waste collectors, dealers, recyclers & consumers are connected. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.14)***
- [**`DuboTech`**](https://dubotech.com/) : DuboTech is a pioneering deep tech startup from Bangladesh, specializing in cutting-edge underwater technology. ***(Last Update: 2024.12.12)***
<!---
[**`EN-NAME`**](WEBSITE-URL) : EN-DESCRIPTION। ***(Last Update: EN-YYYY.MM.DD)***
--->

## Not Active but Great Idea
- [**`Portbliss`**](https://www.portbliss.org/) : Has started its startup journey with a mobile game called Heroes of 71. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.15)***
- [**`khujun.com`**](https://www.hugedomains.com/domain_profile.cfm?d=khujun.com/) : Vertical search engine helps search content from a list of Bangladesh-specific websites and it's free for users. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.20)***
- [**`Admission Ninja`**](https://www.admissionninja.com/) : A mobile app that is a complete and alternative solution for coaching and admission tests of universities in the country. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.20)***

## Contributors
<a href="https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups" />
</a>

Made with [contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks).

Commit message:

add Cassetex (#47)
* add Cassetex

* add last updated date for cassetex.

README.en.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    ✨ BD Startups ✨
</h1>

<p style="text-align:left;">
    List of Bangladeshi startups
    <span style="float:right;">
      <a href = "https://the-penguins-club.github.io/bd-startups">এই পেইজটি বাংলায় পড়ুন</a>  
    </span>
</p>

## Introduction
- We're making a list of Bangladeshi startups.
- If you know any startup that's not listed here then [fork](https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/fork) this repo and contribute. Also you can create an [issue](https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/issues).

## Startups
- [**`10 Minute School`**](https://10minuteschool.com) : eDTech - Academic and skill development learning platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Ajkerdeal`**](https://ajkerdeal.com) : Online shopping platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Arogga`**](https://www.arogga.com/) Doorstep delivery service for medicine and healthcare service. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Bkash`**](https://www.bkash.com/) : Mobile banking solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.09)***
- [**`Bdjobs`**](https://www.bdjobs.com/) : Job searching platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Chaldal`**](https://chaldal.com) : Online grocery store. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Codepotro`**](https://codepotro.com) : Independent software development company. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Dingi Technologies Ltd`**](https://www.dingi.tech/) :  Finest Local Map & Lifestyle App. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Gaze`**](https://developer.gaze.ai/) :  API for visual recognition, biometric and other services. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.12)***
- [**`Inclusion X`**](https://inclusionx.org/) : Mental Health service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Khelbei Bangladesh`**](https://kbangla.com/) : Online Game Learning Platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`OpenRefactory`**](https://www.openrefactory.com) : Intelligent code repair solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Pathao`**](https://pathao.com/) : Ride sharing and parcel service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Paperfly`**](http://www.paperfly.com.bd/) : E-commerce delivery solution. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`Repto`**](https://repto.com.bd/) : Online education platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`Sheba.xyz`**](https://www.sheba.xyz) : Online market place for daily products. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Shikho`**](https://shikho.tech) : edTech - Online learning platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Shohoz`**](https://www.shohoz.com/) : Online on demand service provider. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`Shopup`**](https://shopup.com.bd/) : Online shopping platform. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.15)***
- [**`The Penguins Club`**](https://thepenguins.club/) : Daily Bangla magazine on open source, Linux, business, privacy and security. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.12)***
- [**`The2HourJob`**](https://the2hourjob.com/) : Freelancing service for woman. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.13)***
- [**`Truck Lagbe`**](http://www.trucklagbe.com) : Online truck hiring service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Zantrik`**](https://www.zantrik.com) : Automobile repairing service. ***(Last Update: 2021.12.10)***
- [**`Bi-Beat Limited`**](https://bibeat.com/) : BiBeat Limited provides telemedicine based on internet software and integrated tell diagnostic devices. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.23)***
- [**`Khamar-E`**](https://khamar-e.com/) : Khamar-e is a agro-tech startup in Bangladesh. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.23)***
- [**`DocTime`**](https://doctime.com.bd/) : DocTime is a telemedicine service provider. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`SME Vai`**](https://smevai.com/) : SMEVAI is the One Stop Business Solution for SMEs covering. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Maya`**](https://m.mayaiswithyou.com/) : Maya is telemedicine service specially for women. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Tally Khata`**](https://www.tallykhata.com/) : Tally Khata app can be handy for keeping financial records of SMEs. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`Programming Hero`**](https://www.programming-hero.com/) : Programming Learning App. ***(Last Update: 2022.01.24)***
- [**`BiddinGO Ride`**](https://biddingo.app/) : BiddinGO is a ridesharing app that works for sharing ride as customer demand. ***(Last Update: 2022.03.30)***
- [**`Boi Pathok`**](https://boipathok.com/) : Digital edition of the traditional library. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.03)***
- [**`DataXpie`**](https://dataxpie.com) : Digital Product store. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`HandyMama`**](https://handymama.co) : Online on-demand service provider. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Gaze`**](https://www.gaze.ai) : Artificial Intelligence  related startup. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`SOLshare`**](https://me-solshare.com) : Solar energy sharing platform. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Nitex`**](https://nitex.com) : End to End supply chain management fore clothing brand. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Khaas Food`**](https://www.khaasfood.com) : E-commerce service for Organic food. ***(Last Update: 2022.04.19)***
- [**`Roots Edu`**](https://rootsedulive.com/) : Ed-tech Platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.04.19)***
- [**`JaduPC`**](https://jadupc.com/) : Low cost computers with ARM based SBCs (single board computers). ***(Last Update: 2023.08.13)***
- [**`Chorcha`**](https://chorcha.net/) : Chorcha is a HSC and admission-focused quiz-based preparation platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Tinkers`**](https://tinkers.ltd/) : Tinkers is an edtech startup focusing on teaching kids. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Hackverse`**](https://www.hackverse.dev/) : Hackverse is a hackathon-conducting platform. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Zatiq`**](https://www.zatiq.com/) : Zatiq is a fintech software and hardware startup. ***(Last Update: 2023.08.14)***
- [**`Mitro`**](https://mitro.io/en) : Platform for withdraw advance salary. ***(Last Update: 2023.09.08)***
- [**`JoBike`**](https://www.jo.bike/) : JoBike is the first “station-less” bike-sharing service in Bangladesh. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.14)***
- [**`BD Recycle Technologies Limited (BRTL)`**](https://brtlcenter.com/) : A tech-based platform where all the waste collectors, dealers, recyclers & consumers are connected. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.14)***
- [**`DuboTech`**](https://dubotech.com/) : DuboTech is a pioneering deep tech startup from Bangladesh, specializing in cutting-edge underwater technology. ***(Last Update: 2024.12.12)***
- [**`Cassetex`**](https://www.cassetex.com/) : Cassetex is 1st Solar Battery Swapping in Bangladesh. ***(Last Update: 2025.06.22)***
<!---
[**`EN-NAME`**](WEBSITE-URL) : EN-DESCRIPTION। ***(Last Update: EN-YYYY.MM.DD)***
--->

## Not Active but Great Idea
- [**`Portbliss`**](https://www.portbliss.org/) : Has started its startup journey with a mobile game called Heroes of 71. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.15)***
- [**`khujun.com`**](https://www.hugedomains.com/domain_profile.cfm?d=khujun.com/) : Vertical search engine helps search content from a list of Bangladesh-specific websites and it's free for users. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.20)***
- [**`Admission Ninja`**](https://www.admissionninja.com/) : A mobile app that is a complete and alternative solution for coaching and admission tests of universities in the country. ***(Last Update: 2024.06.20)***

## Contributors
<a href="https://github.com/The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=The-Penguins-Club/bd-startups" />
</a>

Made with [contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks).
